- Meaning any statement true of an individual in a structure will also be true of its image under any automorphism of the structure.
- Mathematicians strive for *categorical* theories.
	- > A theory is *categorical* if all models of it are isomorphic. In such a case, the theory completely captures the structural essence of what it is trying to describe, characterizing that structure up to isomorphism. Dedekind, for example, had isolated fundamental principles of arithmetic and proved that they characterized the natural numbers up to isomorphism; any two models are isomorphic. In other words, he proved that his theory is categorical.
	  >
	  > The analogous feat has long been performed for essentially all the familiar mathematical structures, and we have categorical characterizations not only of the natural numbers ℕ, but of the ring of integers ℤ, the field of rational numbers ℚ, the field of real numbers ℝ, the field of complex numbers ℂ, and many more.  Daniel Isaacson emphasizes the role that categoricity plays in identifying particular mathematical structures. Namely, we become familiar with a structure; we find the essential features of that structure; and then we prove that those features axiomatically characterize the structure up to isomorphism. For Isaacson, this is what it means to identify a particular mathematical structure, such as the natural numbers, the integers, the real numbers, or indeed, even the set- theoretic universe. [source](https://www.infinitelymore.xyz/p/structuralism)