
- Alternative title: Leadership is a necessary phenomenon in every form of social life
-
- This is one of the core points of Burnham's book [The Machiavellians](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1270379.The_Machiavellians). It's called "The Iron Law of Oligarchy", a term coined by Michels in his book "Zur Soziologie des Parteiwesens in der modernen Demokratie".
	- Michels argues that all big groups need to defer the majority of decision making to a leadership.
	- > “For democracy, however, the first appearance of professional leadership marks the beginning of the end, and this, above all, on account of the logical impossibility of the ‘representative’ system, whether in parliamentary life or in party delegation. Jean Jacques Rousseau may be considered as the founder of this aspect of the criticism of democracy. He defines popular government as ‘the exercise of the general will,’ and draws from this the logical inference, ‘it can never be alienated, and the sovereign, which is simply a collective being, can be represented only by itself.’ Consequently, ‘at the moment when a people sets up representatives, it is no longer free, it no longer exists.’ A mass which delegates its sovereignty, that is to say transfers its sovereignty to the hands of a few individuals, abdicates its sovereign functions. For the will of the people is not transferable, nor even the will of the single individual.”
	- Michel argues that members of leadership work towards their own goals. He sees democracy as vulnerable to leaders who claim they (alone) express the will of the people, something Hitler, Napoleon, Stalin, and others did. This line of argumentation is the logical conclusion of the argument inherent in democratic theory, which is that a leadership works towards the goals of the ruled people. And as we saw, it leads to oppressive governments and bad conditions for the ruled people.
		- Given those weaknesses, democratic is vulnerable and can't be realized perfectly.
		- > “The mass will never rule except in abstracto. Consequently the question … is not whether ideal democracy is realizable, but rather to what point and in what degree democracy is desirable, possible, and realizable at a given moment.” (P. 402.) Oligarchy will always remain; but it may be possible to put some limit and restraint on the absoluteness of oligarchy. This cannot be effectively done by a utopian and sentimental idealism concerning the possibilities of democracy. “Nothing but a serene and frank examination of the oligarchical dangers of a democracy will enable us to minimize these dangers, even though they can never be entirely avoided.” (P. 408.) “Those alone, perhaps, are in a position to pass a fair judgment upon democracy who, without lapsing into dilettantist sentimentalism, recognize that all scientific and human ideals have relative values. If we wish to estimate the value of democracy, we must do so in comparison with its converse, pure aristocracy. The defects inherent in democracy are obvious. It is none the less true that as a form of social life we must choose democracy as the least of evils.” (P. 407.)
	-
- Democracies are
