
- Static quality is a concept introduced in Lila ([[Robert Pirsig]]).
	- Instead of dividing everything into subjects and objects, Pirsig divides reality into *Dynamic Quality* and *static quality*. ‘Dynamic Quality’ is the term he gives to the continually changing flux of immediately-experienced reality, while ‘static quality’ refers to any concept abstracted from this flux. [Source](https://philosophynow.org/issues/122/Robert_Pirsig_and_His_Metaphysics_of_Quality)
- Pirsig sorts static quality patterns into inorganic, biological, societal, intellectual. The insight behind this is that explanations on different levels allow a deeper understanding of reality than reductionism or holism ([[High-level simplicity can emerge from low-level complexity]]) and thus more freedom ([[Better explanations increase wealth]]).
- Pirsig derives a morality based on these levels. The Metaphysics of Quality combines the four levels of patterns to produce one overall moral framework which has a cosmological evolutionary hierarchy, in which the entity or process that has more freedom on the evolutionary scale – the one that is more *Dynamic* – takes moral precedence.
- Finding explanations is a creative act, a dance with dynamic quality. Conjuring and criticising allow us to arrive at better explanations. [[We create better explanations through conjecture, criticism and testing]].
- However, the outcome of explanations are always static, fixed models. Explanations are always maps, never territory. They are fixed in the sense that improving upon the explanation means creating a new one. The explanation can not move anywhere. Once spelled out it's like a dead butterfly. Improving explanations means going back to confronting dynamic quality, staying at and expanding the edge. [[All models are wrong, some are useful]]
